 question: How does insurance operate?
answer: Insurance operates by pooling risk together across policies.

question: What are the two concepts related to insurance losses?
answer: The two concepts related to insurance losses are loss count (frequency) and individual loss sizes (severity).

question: How is aggregate loss calculated?
answer: Aggregate loss is calculated by summing all of the individual losses.

question: What is the frequency random variable?
answer: The frequency random variable describes the number of losses.

question: What is the severity random variable?
answer: The severity random variable describes the size of the loss.

question: What are the assumptions of the collective risk model?
answer: The assumptions of the collective risk model are that all existing losses are independent and identically distributed (i.i.d.) random variables, and any existing frequency and severity variables are independent.

question: What are the primary distribution and secondary distribution in the collective risk model?
answer: The primary distribution and secondary distribution refer to the distribution of the frequency and severity variables, respectively.

question: What does it mean when the frequency random variable is 0?
answer: When the frequency random variable is 0, it means that there are no losses.

question: How many types of aggregate loss models are there?
answer: There are two types of aggregate loss models.question;And the distribution of is called the compound distribution.
answer;The distribution of is called the compound distribution.
question;On the exam, most questions from this section use the collective risk model.
answer;Most questions from this section use the collective risk model on the exam.
question;When solving problems, the independence requirement is as simple as verifying that frequency and severity are independent.
answer;The independence requirement when solving problems is as simple as verifying that frequency and severity are independent.
question;Under the individual risk model, we simplify the frequency but generalize the severity.
answer;Under the individual risk model, the frequency is simplified but the severity is generalized.
question;Instead of a random variable, the frequency is now a constant, , that is usually used to represent the number of policyholders.
answer;Instead of a random variable, the frequency is now represented as a constant, , which usually represents the number of policyholders.
question; is then the aggregate loss amount of the policyholder.
answer; is then the aggregate loss amount of the policyholder.
question; , , ..., are independent but may not be identical random variables in this case. In other words, the 's may have different distributions.
answer; , , ..., are independent but may not be identical random variables in this case, meaning that they may have different distributions.