What are some examples of services usually covered by a major medical insurance policy?;Inpatient services, outpatient services, ancillary services, and prescription drugs.
What are ancillary services in health insurance?;Ancillary services refer to a wide range of medical services that support the work of a primary physician. They can be categorized into diagnostic, therapeutic, and custodial.
How are prescription drugs classified in major medical insurance?;Prescription drugs can be classified as generic, brand-name, or specialty, as well as preferred or non-preferred. Each insurance carrier lists their preferred drugs in a formulary.1. What is a provider network?
Why does consolidation of health care providers pose a challenge?;It prevents the selection of specific providers when building a network.
What is another challenge insurers face when choosing providers?;Limited number of providers in rural areas.
Why is the limited number of providers in rural areas a challenge?;Insurers cannot be as restrictive as there are fewer providers available.
What do carriers with geographically diverse customers typically do?;They contract with existing networks for hire.
Who usually develops the networks that carriers rent?;Companies who have invested resources with the intent of renting these networks to insurers.
How do insurers decide which network to rent?;They evaluate networks based on cost and health care practice patterns such as quality measures and efficiency of care.Q
What are the two main types of health insurance plans?;The two main types of health insurance plans are Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) and Preferred Provider Organization (PPO).
What is required under an HMO plan?;Under an HMO plan, the insured is required to have a primary care provider.
Can insureds see a specialist under an HMO plan without a referral?;No, if an insured needs to see a specialist under an HMO plan, a referral from the primary care doctor is needed.
What type of health services does an HMO plan typically cover?;An HMO plan typically does not cover health services outside of the network.
Is a primary care provider needed under a PPO plan?;No, a primary care provider is not needed under a PPO plan.
Can insureds visit providers outside of the network under a PPO plan?;Yes, insureds can visit providers outside of the network under a PPO plan.
Does visiting a health care professional within the network guarantee lower cost and higher coverage under a PPO plan?;Yes, visiting a health care professional within the network guarantees lower cost and higher coverage under a PPO plan.Question
What is cost sharing?;The amount of cost paid by policyholders is called cost sharing.
What is a deductible?;A deductible is the amount the insured has to pay before the insurance coverage kicks in.
How can deductibles be applied and defined differently for different categories of services?;In the context of health insurance, deductibles can be applied and defined differently for different categories of services.
What is an overall deductible?;Some health insurance plans impose an overall deductible as opposed to separate deductibles for different benefits. This deductible is typically high and is an important feature of a High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP).
What are provider discounts?;If a healthcare provider participates in an insurer's network, there is likely an agreement between them on the cost of services provided.
How are billed charges calculated?;Billed charges are calculated using the retail, or undiscounted, price the provider charges for a service.
How are allowed charges calculated?;Allowed charges are calculated as the amount permitted by the insurance provider for a specific service.Question
Do most insurers allow in-network providers to balance bill?;No, most insurers do not allow in-network providers to balance bill.
Do in-network and out-of-network services both have billed and allowed charges?;Yes, both in-network and out-of-network services have billed and allowed charges.
What are benefit calculations based on?;Benefit calculations are required to be based on allowed charges.
If an insured goes to an out-of-network provider, how are their benefit calculations determined?;If an insured goes to an out-of-network provider, their benefit calculations are determined based on allowed charges.
What option does an out-of-network provider have when an insured goes to them?;The out-of-network provider has the option to balance bill the insured in order to recoup the difference between billed charges and allowed charges.Coinsurance;The proportion of loss the insurer is responsible for.
Under the Affordable Care Act (ACA), is there a lifetime dollar limit on essential health benefits?;no
What do out-of-pocket limits refer to?;the maximum amount that an insured pays under a policy for a policy period
What do maximum limits refer to?;the maximum amount that an insurer pays under a policy
Can limits exist for specific subsets of benefits in health insurance policies?;yes
How can limits for specific subsets of benefits be expressed?;in dollars and/or number of visits
Give an example of a specific subset of benefits with limits.;chiropractor sessions limited to $25 per visit and 40 visits per year
Does the ACA allow any form of dollar limit on essential health benefits?;no
What do insurance carriers often do in response to the ACA's regulations on essential health benefits?;remove dollar limits on essential health benefitsquestion
What is a copay?;A copay refers to the cost sharing (i.e. the amount paid by the insured) that occurs every time a health care service is provided.
What are the advantages of using copays instead of deductibles as a means of cost sharing?;The advantages of using copays instead of deductibles as a means of cost sharing are
What is the in-network physician visit copay for Plan 1?;$10
What is the out-of-network hospital inpatient stay copay for Plan 1?;$500
What is the out-of-network physician visit copay for Plan 1?;$30
What is the in-network hospital outpatient emergency room copay for Plan 1?;$100
What is the in-network x-ray copay for Plan 1?;$15
What is the out-of-network hospital outpatient emergency room copay for Plan 1?;$200
What is the out-of-network x-ray copay for Plan 1?;$30
What is the coinsurance percentage for in-network services for Plan 1?;80%
What is the coinsurance percentage for out-of-network services for Plan 1?;60%
What is the out-of-pocket limit for Plan 1?;$3,500
What is the prescription drug copay for generic drugs for Plan 1?;$10
What is the prescription drug copay for brand drugs for Plan 1?;$30
What is the prescription drug copay for specialty drugs for Plan 1?;$100
What is the overall deductible for Plan 2?;$3,500
What is the coinsurance percentage for in-network services for Plan 2?;100%
What is the coinsurance percentage for out-of-network services for Plan 2?;70%
What is the out-of-pocket limit for Plan 2?;$3,500
What is the overall deductible for Ashe's health insurance policy?;$4,000
What is the coinsurance percentage for Ashe's health insurance policy?;80%
What is the out-of-pocket limit for Ashe's health insurance policy?;$5,000Question
What events did Ashe experience in 2018?;- Annual physical exam on 6/18/18 with allowed charges of $150
When does Ashe have to pay for the first three expenses?;Ashe has to pay for the first three expenses because the overall deductible has not been met after those events.
When does the overall deductible get met?;The overall deductible gets met when the fourth expense occurs.
What does Ashe have to pay after the overall deductible is met?;Ashe has to pay the expenses up to the overall deductible plus 20% of the cost after the deductible.
How much does Sigma pay for this policy?;Sigma pays the percentage of the allowed charges in 2018 that they will cover for this policy.
What is the minimum allowed charges for the next event that guarantees no additional payment from Ashe for the rest of 2018?;The minimum allowed charges for the next event guarantee no additional payment from Ashe for the rest of 2018.Question
How much has Ashe paid as of the 4th expense?;Ashe has paid .
What is Ashe's out-of-pocket limit?;Ashe's out-of-pocket limit is 5,000.
How much does Ashe still need to pay for the remainder of the year?;Ashe will still need to pay up to 860 for the remainder of the year.
What is the condition for Ashe to not have to make any additional payments?;If there is another medical cost before the year ends, Ashe would not have to pay anything after an expense of at least .
How much will Ashe pay if the next event costs at least 4,300?;Ashe will pay exactly 860, having reached her out-of-pocket limit under this policy.
What is the purpose of major medical coverage?;Major medical coverage aims to protect insureds against large unexpected health care costs, instead of covering.1. What is comprehensive major medical coverage?
Why was short-term medical coverage introduced?;Short-term medical coverage was introduced because of substantial lapse rates for newly issued individual major medical policies.
What is the main difference between short-term medical coverage and major medical policies?;The main difference is that short-term medical coverage has a limited term, while major medical policies typically do not.
How does the underwriting process differ for short-term medical coverage?;Underwriting for short-term medical coverage is typically simpler and results in substantially less cost.
What is a potential drawback of short-term medical coverage?;Short-term medical coverage generally has a pre-existing condition exclusion, which complicates the claim administration process.
What is the out-of-pocket maximum for short-term medical coverage?;The out-of-pocket maximum for short-term medical coverage can vary, but it is usually in the $25,000 to $100,000 range.
Why has short-term medical coverage ceased to exist under the current ACA rules?;Short-term medical coverage has ceased to exist because the out-of-pocket maximum required by the ACA is less than the deductible amounts for these policies.1. What does the individual mandate require in the U.S.?
Who are MSAs limited to?;MSAs are limited to self-employed individuals and small businesses.
Who are HSAs available to?;HSAs are available to everyone with an HDHP.
What are the main reasons for the restrictions on plan design under the ACA?;The restrictions on plan design are important because they define what constitutes a health insurance policy and most individuals in the U.S. are required to have basic health insurance.
True or False;TrueQuestion
What were some common examples of categories that were excluded or subject to underwriting approval prior to the ACA?;Mental health and substance use disorder services; Maternity and newborn care.
What types of services cannot have cost sharing under the ACA?;Many preventive services, such as standard vaccinations and blood pressure screenings.
Are there any lifetime or annual dollar limits allowed on EHBs?;No, lifetime and annual dollar limits are not allowed on EHBs.
What metal levels must plans meet in terms of actuarial value (AV)?;Plans must meet an actuarial value (AV) metal level
