What is automobile insurance?;Automobile insurance, or auto insurance for short, is one of the most common types of insurance in the industry.
What are the standard coverages in auto insurance?;The standard coverages in auto insurance are
Who sets the requirements for insurance coverages in the U.S.?;Each U.S. state sets its own requirements for insurance coverages.
Which coverages are mandatory for automobile owners in most states?;In most states, Liability Insurance (Section A) and Medical Benefits (Section B) coverages are mandatory for automobile owners.
What are financial responsibility limits?;Financial responsibility limits describe the minimum amount of coverage needed as set by the state.
What coverage is required for a financed vehicle?;If the vehicle is being financed, most financial institutions also require Collision & Other than Collision (Section C) coverage.
Who are the insured parties under auto insurance?;The insured parties under auto insurance are the policyholder named in the declarations and his/her immediate family members.
Is coverage usually extended to anyone else?;Usually, coverage is not extended to anyone else.Question
What does Section A provide indemnification for?;Section A provides indemnification to the third party (innocent party) for an accident if the insured is liable.
What does BI stand for in Section A?;BI stands for bodily injury.
What does PD stand for in Section A?;PD stands for property damage.
Under what circumstances will the insurer not pay for an accident?;The insurer will not pay if the accident is caused intentionally by the insured or if the accident is covered under workers compensation.1. What does PD coverage pay for?
How are split limits specified in insurance policies?;Split limits can be specified on a per-person basis, per-occurrence basis, or both.
What is an example of split limits in a liability coverage policy?;An example of split limits is $50,000 per person and $100,000 per accident for bodily injuries, and $10,000 per accident for property damages.
Why is it advisable to purchase higher levels of bodily injury coverage?;It is advisable to purchase higher levels of bodily injury coverage because these claims can run into millions of dollars, and the liable party's personal assets may be demanded for payment by the courts.
What factors determine the premium charged to the insured?;Factors such as limit of coverage, garage location, use of vehicle (business vs. pleasure), accidents/violations/claims history, and personal attributes like age and gender determine the premium charged to the insured.1. What is Section B in auto insurance known as in a tort jurisdiction?
What does Collision coverage indemnify the insured for?;Damage to a covered auto caused by colliding with an object
What options does the insurer have in the case of a collision?;Pay the insured the loss or pay to repair or replace the vehicle
How does the insurer determine the amount to pay in a collision claim?;They choose the less expensive option, known as the collision limit
Can the policyholder file a collision claim regardless of who is at fault?;Yes
What happens if the insured is at-fault in a collision?;Their car will be repaired or replaced
What happens if the insured is not at-fault in a collision?;The insurer will repair or replace the policyholder's vehicle and then seek compensation from the guilty party
What does Other Than Collision (OTC) coverage provide protection for?;Damage to the insured's vehicle caused by events other than collisionQ
What is Specified Perils Coverage?;Specified perils coverage is when coverage is only provided for specific perils listed on the policy.
What perils are generally excluded under Comprehensive Coverage?;Examples of perils that are generally excluded under comprehensive coverage include war, acts of terrorism, wear and tear, road damage to tires, and radiation contamination.
What factors may impact the premium for coverage?;Some factors that may impact the premium for coverage include personal attributes of the insured, events that result in claims, and different pricing models used by insurers.Question
How does subrogation affect premiums?;Subrogation tends to lower premiums for collision coverage, but raise premiums for liability coverage.
What happens if the recovered cost is higher than the indemnification given to the insured?;If the recovered cost is higher than the indemnification given to the insured, the difference must be paid to the insured. Insurers are not allowed to profit from subrogation.
What is salvage?;Salvage is the process where the insurer takes ownership of a vehicle to recover any remaining value after indemnifying the full value of the vehicle.
What does the insurer typically do with a salvaged vehicle?;The insurer typically sells the salvaged vehicle to a salvage vendor.
Why does the insurer salvage a vehicle?;The insurer salvages a vehicle to recover any remaining value after indemnifying the full value of the vehicle.Q
Can insurance companies profit from subrogation?;No, insurance companies are not allowed to profit from subrogation.
What happens if the salvage value exceeds the indemnification?;Insurers are required to pay the insured the difference in excess of the full value.
What coverages do Trudy and Courtney have on a per-accident basis?;Trudy has $100,000 Third Party Liability Coverage, $5,000 Medical Payments Coverage, and $20,000 Uninsured/Underinsured Motorists Coverage. Courtney has $200,000 Third Party Liability Coverage, $10,000 Medical Payments Coverage, and $40,000 Uninsured/Underinsured Motorists Coverage.
What is the deductible for collision coverage?;The deductible for collision coverage is $0.
Who is at fault in the car accident between Trudy and Courtney?;Trudy is at fault in the car accident with Courtney.question
What are Trudy's damages?;$45,000
What is Trudy's limit of liability coverage?;$100,000
How much will Truckers Insurance Company pay to Courtney?;$100,000
How much is Trudy responsible for?;$35,000
How much coverage does Trudy have for medical payments?;$5,000
How much will Trudy receive for medical payments?;$5,000Question
What is the amount of Medical Payments Coverage that Truckers Insurance will pay to Trudy?;$5,000
What is the amount of Uninsured/Underinsured Motorists Coverage that Truckers Insurance will pay to Trudy and Courtney?;-
What is the amount of Collision Coverage for Damage to Auto that Truckers Insurance will pay to Trudy?;$10,000
What is the total amount that Truckers Insurance will pay to Trudy and Courtney?;$115,000
