Give examples of perils that are excluded from basic coverage.;Examples of exclusions are natural disasters (such as earthquakes and floods), criminal or intentional acts by the insured, nuclear accidents, acts of war or terrorism.
What is the doctrine of proximate cause?;The doctrine of proximate cause states that a loss is covered if and only if a covered peril is the proximate cause of a covered consequence. Both the peril and consequence have to be covered under the policy and the peril must be the proximate cause.
What does Coverage B protect against?;Coverage B protects against damages or losses to the garage or other structures.Question
What do most insurers cover for personal property?;Most insurers cover the actual cash value.
What additional coverage option do some insurers offer for personal property?;Some insurers offer replacement cost coverage for an additional premium.
Does Coverage C extend to borrowed property?;Yes, Coverage C extends to borrowed property under the possession of the insured.
Does Coverage C also extend to personal property that is outside of the house?;Yes, Coverage C also extends to personal property that is outside of the house.
What are inside limits under personal property coverage?;Inside limits are specific limits on compensation for certain losses.
Can there be a limit on compensation for stolen cash?;Yes, there may be a limit to the amount of compensation for stolen cash.
Are there inside limits on coverage for jewelry, silverware, and art?;Yes, there are inside limits on coverage for jewelry, silverware, and art.
How can homeowners fully insure these items?;Homeowners can attach a schedule of these items and their appraised values to the policy to fully insure them.
What values will the insurer pay if these items are damaged or stolen?;If these items are damaged or stolen, the insurer will pay the appraised values, not the market values.Q
What will Coverage D pay for while repairs are being done on the house?;Fair value for alternative accommodations.
What will Coverage D indemnify?;The loss of rental income if parts of the primary dwelling were rented out before the loss.
What does Coverage E provide?;Third-party liability coverage if a third party is injured or if a third party's property is damaged on the insured's premises.
What does the injured party need to prove in Coverage E?;That the insured is liable for the injury or loss.
What does Coverage F provide?;Medical benefits to any third party injured on the insured's premises.
Does the insured need to be sued for Coverage F to provide medical benefits?;No, the insured does not need to be sued.Question
What does a tenants package policy mostly cover?;Personal possessions.
What is the purpose of the coinsurance provision?;To penalize the insured if the limit purchased is less than a specified percentage of the full value of the dwelling.
Why does the coinsurance provision exist?;Because the distribution of homeowners insurance losses is heavily weighted toward smaller amounts and allowing insureds to purchase lower limits without penalty poses greater risk to the insurance pool.
How is the insurance benefit calculated with coinsurance?;9/30/23, 7
What is the limit, or insured amount in homeowners insurance?;Limit, or insured amount
What is the full value of the house at the time of loss in homeowners insurance?;Full value of the house at the time of loss
What is the coinsurance percentage in homeowners insurance?;Coinsurance percentage
What is the loss amount in homeowners insurance?;Loss amount
Calculate the amount Safe House will pay to compensate for this loss.;Solution
What is the compensation amount in Example S1.1.2.1?;Compensation amount
What is the homeowners insurance policy of Jon?;Jon has a homeowners insurance policy through Safe House Insurance.
What is the insured amount for Jon's house?;Jon's house is insured for 150,000.
What is the coinsurance clause in Safe House's homeowners insurance policy?;Safe House's homeowners insurance policy has an 80% coinsurance clause.
What is the requirement of the coinsurance clause?;The coinsurance clause requires all policyholders to insure at least 80% of the full value of their house.
What is the estimated loss incurred by Jon?;During the policy year, Jon incurs a loss estimated at 50,000.
What is the value of Jon's house at the time of loss?;At the time of the loss, Jon's house is valued at 250,000.
What is the compensation amount in Example S1.1.2.1?;The compensation amount in Example S1.1.2.1 is
What is the homeowners insurance policy of Garrett?;Garrett has a homeowners insurance policy throu [Incomplete question]Q
What is Protect House's homeowners insurance policy coinsurance clause?;Unknown.
What was the loss experienced by Garrett due to a tropical storm?;100,000.
How much did Protect House pay Garrett for the loss?;80,000.
What was the value of Garrett's house at the time of the loss?;300,000.
Calculate the compensation amount.;Unknown.
What is the equation to calculate the compensation amount?;Unknown.
Solve for the compensation amount.;Unknown.
What is the limit of Quinn's commercial insurance policy?;90,000.
What is the coinsurance clause of Quinn's commercial insurance policy?;70%.
What is the deductible of Quinn's commercial insurance policy?;1,000.
How much damages were caused by the hurricane for Quinn?;10,000.question;Calculate the actual value of the property at the time of the loss.
